Initial architecture (#16)
kyma-project/kyma-operator: README.md

Kyma is the opinionated set of Kubernetes based modular building blocks that includes the necessary capabilities to develop and run enterprise-grade cloud-native applications. Kyma operator is a tool that manages lifecycle of these components in your cluster.

# Architecture

Architecture of kyma-operator and component operators is derived from Kubernetes controllers/operators. Kyma-operator is a meta operator that coordinates lifecycle of kyma components by delegating it to component operators. 

Before you go further please make sure you understand concepts of Kubernetes API and resources. Recommended reading:
- [Kubebuilder book](https://book.kubebuilder.io/)
- [Operator SDK](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/building-operators/golang/)

The architecture is based on best practices for building Kubernetes operators ([1](https://cloud.google.com/blog/products/containers-kubernetes/best-practices-for-building-kubernetes-operators-and-stateful-apps), [2](https://sdk.operatorframework.io/docs/best-practices/)). 

Some architecture decisions were derived from business requirements and experiments (proof of concepts):
[Architecture Decisions](docs/architecture-decisions.md)

> ![](docs/assets/kyma-operator-architecture.svg)

Author: Right. It is just initial architecture. It should be constantly updated with new develpment.

> Kyma-operator manages Kyma custom resource (CR). Kyma custom resource contains version of Kyma and list of components. Kyma-operator creates and watches component custom resources and updates Kyma resource status. Component operators watch only own custom resources, reconcile components in the target clusters to the desired states and update component resource status.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
`kyma-operator ` manages Clusters through the `Kyma` custom resource (CR). `Kyma` contains a desired state of all components in a cluster for a given Kyma Release. 

`kyma-operator` creates component custom resources and updates `Kyma`'s status subresource based on the observed status changes in the component custom resource (similar to a deployment tracking pods). 

Component operators watch only their own custom resources and reconcile components in the target clusters to the desired state. These states are then aggregated in `Kyma` to reflect the cluster state.
```

## Example

> Create resource Kyma:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
A sample `Kyma` CR could look like this:
```

```
apiVersion: operator.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kyma
metadata:
  name: kyma-sample
spec:
  version: 2.2

>   kubeconfigName: cluster1-kubeconfig

Reviewer: This is not included yet and we will most likely reference it through a different key reflected in it being a secret.

Author: I commented it out.

  components:
  - name: istio
  - name: serverless
```

> Such resource triggers kyma-operator, that creates 2 custom resources: `ServerlessComponent` and `IstioConfiguration`. These custom resources will trigger serverless-operator and istio-operator. When each component operator completes the installation it updates own resource status (`ServerlessComponent` and `IstioConfiguration`). Status changes trigger kyma-operator to update `Kyma` resource status. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The creation of the custom resource triggers a reconciliation of kyma-operator, that creates 2 custom resources: `ServerlessComponent` and `IstioConfiguration` based on a template. These custom resources will trigger serverless-operator and istio-operator. When each component operator completes the installation it updates it's own resource status (`ServerlessComponent/status` and `IstioConfiguration/status`). Status changes trigger kyma-operator to update `Kyma` resource status and aggregate and combine the readiness condition of the cluster.
```

Some architecture decisions were derived from business requirements and experiments (proof of concepts):
[Architecture Decisions](docs/architecture-decisions.md)

![](docs/assets/kyma-operator-architecture.svg)

`kyma-operator ` manages Clusters through the `Kyma` custom resource (CR). `Kyma` contains a desired state of all components in a cluster for a given Kyma Release. 

`kyma-operator` creates component custom resources and updates `Kyma`'s status subresource based on the observed status changes in the component custom resource (similar to a deployment tracking pods). 

Component operators watch only their own custom resources and reconcile components in the target clusters to the desired state. These states are then aggregated in `Kyma` to reflect the cluster state.

## Example

A sample `Kyma` CR could look like this:
```
apiVersion: operator.kyma-project.io/v1alpha1
kind: Kyma
metadata:
  name: kyma-sample
spec:
#  Note: kyma version and kubeconfig reference is not implemented yet
#  version: 2.2
#  kubeconfigName: cluster1-kubeconfig
  components:
  - name: istio
  - name: serverless
```

> The creation of the custom resource triggers a reconciliation of kyma-operator, that creates 2 custom resources: `ServerlessComponent` and `IstioConfiguration` based on a template. These custom resources will trigger serverless-operator and istio-operator. When each component operator completes the installation it updates it's own resource status (`ServerlessComponent/status` and `IstioConfiguration/status`). Status changes trigger kyma-operator to update `Kyma` resource status and aggregate and combine the readiness condition of the cluster.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The creation of `Kyma` triggers its reconciliation via `kyma-operator` , which creates 2 custom resources: one for `serverless` and `istio` components each, based on a defined template by the component owner. The creations of these component custom resources will in-turn trigger a cluster installation via their respective component operators. When a component operator completes the installation it updates its state, in the `status` subresource of its respective component custom resources. This component status change triggers `kyma-operator`  to update `Kyma` resource status, where the aggregated readiness  the cluster is reflected.
```
